berkshire hathaway chairman and CEO
warren buffett joining us just after
writing his annual letter to
shareholders and Warren this is a big
deal it's something that the investment
community kind of waits on and and sees
as a must-read because you spend so much
time actually writing yourself too much
you start writing the letter well this
one I started very earlier very early
because I had one section in mind it
turned out to be the last section but
when I when I talked about the
americantale window I probably wrote
that in late summer and and then I work
around different sections but it takes a
long time not yeah I am NOT a first
draft writer well for people who have
been reading this for a long time this
letter was markedly different than
you've written for the past three
decades or so because at the top the
opening of every letter in the past to
this point has been Berkshires
percentage change in Book value as the
measure that you thought was most
important this time you kind of stripped
it out and said it's not the most
important metric anymore for a couple of
reasons one is which Berkshire has
changed so markedly but also you just
think it's it's not going to be the way
that you'll be measuring things in the
future no it's it's it's not the more
relevant figure at least over time not
in any one year period but basically its
market value because we have become
overwhelmingly an operating company and
we hope to become even more so than a
company that really held a lot of stocks
and bonds so I've actually talked about
that in previous reports I wouldn't have
wanted to quit in a year where I got
clobbered by the one I was dropping that
was adopting one that made me look good
so so I actually included them both in
and it was a good year to to make the
transition and and you said it's
different I've always had the image that
I am talking to my sisters I have two
sisters
they're both Berkshires pretty much
their whole investment they're smart
they're not active in business so
they're not reading about it every day
but I pretend they've been away for a
year and I'm reporting to them on their
investment and then this year because we
may be repurchasing shares I I tried to
have the vision that they were talking
to me about whether they should sell
their shares and I was explaining to
them exactly how I would look at it if I
were in their shoes so so it's there
Doris and birdie at the start and then I
take that off at the end but I'm talking
to them and I'm trying to talk to them
in a manner where if you know they're
practically entirely in Berkshire and if
they were thinking of selling some
here's what I'd want them to know before
before they made a decision to do that
you used a new description for coming up
with it this time which was the idea of
having five groves being maybe a timber
company and having five groves that
Berkshires really invested in you broke
down and looked at each of them on a
case-by-case basis
one being the the non insurance
businesses that Berkshire owns another
being the equities bunch that you have
the final ones the insurance companies
but you also have Treasuries and cash
that you're holding and what am i oh and
then businesses that you own part of not
only the five groves that's pretty
interesting how'd you come up with the
idea of just the gross because it is
something that somebody who's not so
steeped in business can get their head
around pretty easily
well Berkshire you know as dozens and
dozens and dozens of companies and and
what analysts look at it you know they
want to go out and figure out you know
how many boxes of Valentine's we sold
you know at our candy company and you
can get totally lost in terms of looking
at the force by trying to look at every
tree because some of the trees are
flourishing some of them are decaying
and some of them are huge and important
and others are more or less twigs so I
thought I would group the assets in a
way that is logical and where you could
sort of figure out the valuation that
you might attribute to that particular
Grove and and I think it's a lot better
than trying to describe 80 or 90
businesses with 300 but close to 300
90,000 employees I mean we're in one of
businesses right now and this is a very
interesting business but we've got
Jordans in Boston we got star in Houston
yeah we have RC Willey and to go through
everyone and tell them about the latest
story opened and
it's it's much better just to look at
him in groups because they make sensible
groups to that point this is the ask
Warren show and we have gotten a lot of
questions that have come from viewers
some from Berkshire shareholders others
from people who are just longtime
Watchers I'd like to bring up a question
that comes from Marcelo P Lima or Lima
he writes in and I think this comes from
Twitter mr. Buffett in your letter you
note that some of Berkshires trees are
diseased and unlikely to be around in a
decade which ones do you have in mind
and how do we prevent healthy trees from
joining them well I did say that and but
I I would not name the ones that have
major problems just from morale
standpoint but the people would we're
going to keep running them and but they
we have companies that are on the
downswing as well as on the upswing and
it would be it just it would be very
tough and and the the ones that are as I
call it disease they're very very very
small part of our earnings you gain
nothing analytically and you'd have a
hundred people go to work today feeling
you know well we might as well give up
or something of the sort so I I don't
like to name them specifically although
you could probably figure something out
by looking at our list of companies
there's some companies are just in the
wrong industry I mean if you made you
know whatever may well even making
televisions of this country I mean that
was a hot industry you know when I was
young and and we don't do it anymore
uh we saw a lot of them here at our
store so i i i would not i would not
like it if i were working at company
accent and my bosses you're in decay you
do name some of the big redwoods that
you consider to be essential to the
growth though i think you said that
Berkshire Hathaway energy
and the railroad Burlington Northern
Santa Fe or to the biggest redwoods that
stand in the girl yeah they're big again
and both set records for after-tax
earnings last year combined they earn
right around eight billion dollars
after-tax and eight billions a lot of
money to us that's a third of our
operating earnings that we earned 24 a
large fraction of operating earnings
last year twenty four billion and and
those two companies alone earned a now
Berkshire Hathaway energy also has
multiple companies but the BNSF railroad
is just one big railroad let's talk
about that operating profit number it
was twenty four point eight billion
dollars but on a GAAP basis what you're
now focusing on it was four billion
dollars and that comes because of an
accounting change that came into play
this time around it was a twenty point
six billion dollar paper lost on your
investment holdings that you now count
back in from the huge amount of
securities that you owned and then also
the three billion dollar right down on
Kraft you go out of your way to
emphasize again that you don't think
people should be looking at these
gatherings even though you're reporting
them that way god we say the same well
that's the final gap earnings a twenty
four point eight billion also our gap
earnings but their operating earnings
and I think they were we had some I was
outside tailwind on that but but there
were forty one percent greater than any
year we've ever had on operating
earnings but beyond that we have this
large portfolio of stocks and also the
right dining kratides but main thing was
the portfolio stocks and we've made a
lot of money over in stocks over time
but there's been years when we've lost
money to it i i i tell the shareholders
that that we expect we expect to make
money on stocks over time we haven't got
the faintest idea what years will will
be up or down and then they changed the
rule last year so that unrealized gains
or losses are recognized through gap
income that had not been true for dozens
and dozens and dozens of years before so
that that changed our figures but i
that's why I explained that's why I tell
Doris and Bertie that what's happened in
the county during a used to point out
this time it was a decline of more than
twenty billion dollars there would be
quarters where you'll see a huge upswing
and you don't think people should pay
attention to the upswing either these
are fluctuating numbers no they should
pay attention to how we do over ten
years in the stocks we own but but
actually the way the rule works now you
know every minute it's recorded her
nieces mark-to-market and and we're
buying stocks that in some cases we will
hold ten twenty and even longer years
and and and those companies are
retaining earnings they're reducing the
number of shares they've got a lot of
things going for him and I would you
know I have been a lot of money we had
173 billion of equities in here and and
I I love having those and they will make
us money over time but I have no idea
what they'll do in the next year or two
all right let's talk through a few other
questions that have come in from viewers
just regarding Berkshire well we're here
Eric Lafont wrote in and said Warren how
have you structured Gregg able and the G
Jane's compensation now that they
oversee dozens of different businesses
you did point out that you think the
business is much better run now that
goes to our vice chairman each running
their own set of companies yeah our
proxy will be out very soon that shows
what they received I I think unless
there's some calendar quirk or something
like that they will have each received
18 million dollars last year and and the
the base salary is a high percentage of
that and then the bonus is discretionary
with it with me but they they they're
doing a fabulous job and it says
discretionary just based on maybe the
only one you'll read about like that are
proxies there's another question that
comes in regarding Greg and
the G that says the this is from the
rational walk a suggesting question on
Monday given that Abel and Jane are not
only responsible for running those
businesses but also vice-chairman
shouldn't they be up on stage along with
Charlie at the annual meeting many of us
would like to hear from them yeah well
you will hear from a more in the sense
that they they will be upfront with with
microphones ready to take on any
questions that come I know we there it's
not going to be that many years where
the tool is our button and they will be
up on the stage when we rearrange the
format and rewriting the format he's
rearranging Charlotte to some degree but
and it's logic it's logical for them and
I hope lots of questions get directed to
them at the annual meeting well because
we'll feed a men do I should mention one
thing about their comp there's this rule
and I may not be giving it to hear
exactly proper but there's a rule for
public companies that that you get to
deduct only a million dollars in less
for a compensation unless the excess is
tied to some formula so everybody pays
you know you can be running the super
company of all time and they tend to
raise the base salary so they're a
million or two million and then call the
rest something that qualifies under the
IRS where they get the deduction for
every company kills it and they and
their employment consultants know and
everything so you have all these
salaries but then they have something
that makes it very easy for it to make a
lot more money and and that money is
deductible whereas I don't think what we
pay in the way of excess I think it's
over a million is deductible but I mean
it would be a joke
and so we we are paying them a fair
amount of money
I believe that's not deductible where is
it and almost any other company you see
that they're designing it I always
wondered why base makes everybody feel
they pass out or only 10 or 20 years ago
and immediately everybody oh we just had
this
revelation that now that you really only
worth a base salary is a tiny amount you
know and they came to me about designing
something like this alright I said
you know it's just a joke I mean we're
not gonna pay a million dollars here and
huge responsibilities so so you'll see
it you'll see a little different
situation
I think the bonus I give them the I
think it was 16 base and two Moto's I
think the two is is probably dr. Sol 619
on the East Coast and you're already
making friends well done let's get to
another question from the audience this
comes from Brian Chan he asks how are
Ted and Todd's performance since they
joined about eight years ago the the
money managers who were there have there
Ted Weschler and Todd combs have they
performed better than index Charlie said
recently that most money managers did
not add any value compared to an end a
yeah II the first few years each of them
they came at a slightly different time
as maybe a year to a year and a half or
something different times and they got
well ahead of the index and they got
paid compensation now they got it paid
so came in thirds so that it could be
clawed back two-thirds of it if they
missed the second year and so on overall
they are a tiny bit behind the S&P each
by just almost the same margin over the
same time over the entire period over
the entire period and the entire Perry's
a little different for both of them they
now manage about 13 billion each they've
done they've done better than I have so
I that's a measuring stick I mentioned
it because if I don't somebody else will
they also both of them have done an
incredible amount of work in terms of
acquisitions and Todd and particularly
on our medical venture
they that anything a Berkshire of we
made a in arrangement with Lee
Enterprises in terms of managing our
newspapers Ted handle all that I mean
you know he they got my approval on it
but he a million details and and they're
both but they both of you interview to
all kinds of ways to Berkshire but it
has been a it's been a tough time to
beat the SP and but that's the deal
we've got with them and and they've got
a small carry forward of of deficiency
to make up I mean they they had some
Claud back earlier they're made pretty
good money for a few years
substantial sum of Claud back because of
the three-year look-back arrangement and
then now they've got a small carry
forward another question that came in
they've done better than I have Tony
Dickinson writes in what changes should
we expect from Geico with the transition
from Tony nicely to Bill Roberts and how
do they approach leadership differently
are they they're they're two peas in a
pod on that I mean they've worked
together so long they're so compatible
they have the same feelings about about
Geico I mean nobody can quite magic IKOS
Tony's feelings about guy go but they
there's just no change I was at a
meeting of Geico that they had maybe 40
of their top executives and everybody
went around introduced themselves and
gave the list of time they've been with
Geico I think the shortest time any one
of those people said was nineteen years
old girls its own Warren we're just
sitting down with you for the first time
since the news last week that Kraft
Heinz put out there was so much news
it's hard to even summarize it but they
came out with earnings that missed
expectations they said by the way it's
not gonna get better in 2019 they
revealed that there's an SEC
investigation taking place in to
accounting they wrote down the value of
the brands by just over fifteen billion
dollars were you surprised by any of
this news what did
think of what happened because the
street was surprised the stock was down
over 30% yeah well I may have learned a
week or ten days before about something
like the SEC investigation and I'm not
I'm not on the board the grains on the
board and I talked to Greg and and Greg
had been talking a lot to the head of
the audit committee and he's a terrific
guy Jack Pope but the write down I do my
own write downs in my mind so I I was
not surprised by that
although the accounting firms look at
write downs a little differently than I
do but I would not argue with him on it
and I can give you some math that would
substantiate it I've been watching I was
wrong in a couple ways on Kraft Heinz
but the I think we talked the glide
luncheon time about the packaged goods
brands losing some ground against the
retailers six months ago the the glide
but the the packaged goods companies are
always in a struggle with retailers my
our family had a grocery store for a
hundred years and that we didn't have
much bargaining power but the really
strong brands and they can go toe-to-toe
with Walmart or Costco or whomever it
may be
but the weaker brands are tend to lose
out now the interesting thing about
about Kraft Heinz is it's still a
wonderful business in that it uses about
7 billion of tangible assets and earned
six billion pre-tax on it--so so on the
assets required to run the business
7 billion they earn 6 billion roughly
after depreciation pre-tax but we and
certain predecessors but primarily we we
paid a hundred billion more than the
tangible assets so for us it has to earn
on 107
and not just on the seven billion that
the business employees and and we don't
have a way be wonderful we had a way to
deploy another seven billion and six
billion but but it isn't there so I
think that I think that when you're
going toe-to-toe with a Walmart or a
Costco or and maybe an Amazon pretty
soon and you have a modestly good Brad
maybe one word of the trends a little
against or something like that you know
you've got the weaker bargaining hand
than you had ten years ago the really
classic situation is this everything
about it Becky Hines was started in 1869
so they've got all that time to develop
various products particularly catch them
things like that
the crafts part of it's a little more
murky but it goes back to CW Post in
1895 those companies have brought all
kinds of brands all kinds you know them
you had them when you were kid didn't
you have a mouse something they've been
distributed worldwide through tens and
hundreds of thousands of outlets they've
had hundreds of millions of try they
spent a fortune on advertising and their
sales now are twenty six billion Costco
introduced the Kirkland brand in
nineteen ninety two twenty seven years
ago and that brand did thirty nine
million last year whereas all the craft
and Ice brands did twenty seven twenty
six or seven billion so here they are
hundred years plus tons of advertising
build into people's habits and
everything else and now Kirkland a
private label band comes along and with
only seven hundred and fifty or so
outlets does 50 percent more business
than all the craft hides brands and so
house brands private label is getting
stronger it's it varies by country
around the world but but it's it's it's
bigger and it's gonna keep getting
bigger okay a couple of questions on it
first of all does that mean you overpaid
well we did overpay we didn't overpay
for craft I mean a firm price that we
bought that originally it was a 50-50
deals private deal with three J part me
with three G yeah
but 3G we had to stockholders and then
we overpaid for we overpaid for craft
and and we wrote down 15 billion of that
and that you know then that that's CPAs
working way of looking at it actually
the markets marked it down more than
that and and and probably quite properly
I mean the the thing to remember say you
know how the stock doesn't know you own
it you pay ten dollars for stock it goes
to eight you think it there it gets back
to 10 I'll sell it you don't it goes up
to 20 you say I can take out sell half
of them take all my money all those
things are nuts
but in in business if if we paid seven
billion for Crafton which is all it
takes to run the business it would still
earn the same amount as if we paid the
hundred billion three million the stock
the business does not earn more just
because you pay more for it and we not
only after buying crafts everybody
starts speculating about things we buy
so the prices of everything but up and
then on top of it we pay large premiums
for it and and we misjudged it I hear
what you're saying about the house
brands and the competition from places
like a private label brand that Costco
puts out but what what about just
Millennials changing habits how much of
it is that younger consumers don't want
the brands that their parents and
grandparents there's some change in
habits but if you think about it people
don't really change their habits that
much if you try to think of the billion
dollar brands that have been created in
food and their private label
there's very few billion dollar brands
being created and so the fella pivot and
yogurt probably you know but you don't
really see that that that has not been a
huge change physical volume hasn't
changed much the ability to price though
has been changed and that's huge
we had an analyst on last week on Friday
talking about what she perceived as the
problems with Kraft Heinz and she said
she thinks they're under investing in
the business I mean that's kind of been
three G's way to cut to the bone and
that's how you make make this profitable
but she thinks the brands have been
under invested in would you agree with
that I don't think so but that's how
for me to tell but the I see well I was
on the board I mean I saw lots of
innovation on indifferent products and
you saw them advertised to some extent I
I do not think but I don't know this for
sure but I think if you take the 10
largest food companies I think in an
innovation they've tried a lot of things
but how many things work if you look at
Kellogg and General Mills and go up and
down like coca-cola I mean how many new
products really become big you read the
bottom at all but but that kinds ketchup
you know hey it's got 60% of the catch
your mark it's got higher percentages in
other parts of the world and it's a very
very very strong brand some of the cream
cheese is a strong brand but other
brands are weaker and that you are right
certainly that in certain categories
maybe in a kool-aid or jello or
something like that you know they go
back 75 years or something and and
there's some secular trending as that
but that isn't the key I mean they cut
costs not in an innovation or in product
quality or anything like that they just
took it out of as DNA basically now they
may have they may have made a mistake in
terms of working I shouldn't say they we
may have made a mistake in terms of
trying to push hard against certain of
the retailers and finding out that we
weren't as strong as we thought they
were we were let's go to one of the
questions from viewers because we got a
lot of questions related to that Kraft
Heinz this one's number t5 someone named
JC Dominguez wrote in is this the type
of incident in time when you buy more
Heinz or do you pull the plug
oh we don't pull the plug on I'm it
we've never sold a share of of Kraft
Heinz and and if we sold or bought it
has to be reported within two days so we
we wouldn't be able to do anything
significant it but it isn't it isn't our
our style weird are the partners with
with with 3G on it and so we have
exactly the number of shares we had
before and they don't I guess I should
never say never at age 88 somebody else
might do but I can tell you I have
absolutely no intention of selling I got
absolutely no intention of buying why
wouldn't if you're sticking with the
business and it's 30% cheaper today why
wouldn't you buy more because it isn't
worth as much you've got a billion two
hundred million shares out so that's
that's 42 billion for the equity and we
owe 30 30 or 31 billion so whole company
is selling for seventy one or two
billion dollars and as I mentioned it
has about six billion of operating
income now for six four six billion
would you pay a lot more than 72 where
it doesn't look like it's going to be
going up for a while maybe even well
they said it's gonna go down in 2019
you know we there are other things I
think where you get more for your money
and and better prospects not that I
regard the prospects for Kraft Heinz
it's terrible I maybe I would buy the
bet one way or another I think people
leave more of our products this year
than last year but if you see better
places to deploy money why don't you
sell it well hey we can't as a practical
matter move around tens of billions of
dollars that easily but beyond that well
it is I mean if we're working with a
million dollars or ten million dollars
would I have a position is no no I buy
you move around with a million or ten
million and Ted and Todd can move around
reasonably well with thirteen but then
that's gonna be difficult
one hundred and seventy three building
you you are you do you know you know
your dance like an elephant not some guy
on Dancing with the Stars but we always
have a sure winner Joe last year it's
true the favorites got knocked out early
but but we did split
$100,000 consolation prize for whoever
does the best now that got split eight
ways last year but but the year before
we had five people that came within one
game and just the last games of of
winning the million dollar prize now if
they'd won the million they would have
had to split it if all five had won it
but there's a million dollar prize and
we're going to do it again this year and
and we limited to employees of I know of
Berkshire but close personal friends of
mine who have a brick I don't matter I
did you to enter last year and you
didn't do it no no no we were doing
other things where I we're depending
let's do it again this year worn with a
Creighton versus Xavier thing because
they both have losing sort of records in
there they're not doing quite as well
although Creighton just be Georgetown
and yesterday Xavier just beat Villanova
I don't know if you saw it's pretty good
so let's do something there and let's
let's see there's a netjet card I can
think about it I don't know what the
payoffs are pay let's go to bed but
let's see who goes further and get
another brick exactly if I'm like I
guess I guess 36 I got 30 seconds on the
program versus a netjet membership for
you is that it I'll tell you what I'll
do I'll let you name the bet and I will
let you name the stakes and and we'll go
from there
Wow this is the honor system Joe you
know yeah okay let's do that you're
talking his language yeah but you know
he's very crafty and very smart like he
sent me a netjet card it had my name on
it was absolutely useless it was like a
you know was like I use it as a luggage
tag it wasn't worth anything yeah you
said you said net Jack cards you didn't
say that had to work for it that's a
starter card that's the starter card
y'all they got big things in plaid for
you I do have great things to talk to
you about I'm worried I mean I think you
think the markets expensive worn so I
want to talk to you about that I mean
you don't like to say that and you say
long-term it's gonna be fine but you've
got a lot of metrics you're looking at
that like the market cap to GDP or GNP
that that's that looks expensive there
I mean there are things that look
expensive and you're having trouble
finding things so - you know you need to
be honest with us about that or is it
really expose it Joe if it depends on
interest rates we've talked about that
before if you tell me that 3% long bonds
will prevail over the next 30 years
stocks are incredibly cheap okay because
even you know I mentioned that Kraft
Heinz earn six billion on seven billion
intangible assets yeah even if you pay
seventy billion and you're and six
billion on it that's better than having
70 billion out and three percent
government interest rates covering
everything and and if there were a way
to short 30-year bonds and and own the
S&P for 30 years I would I would give
you enormous odds that the SP is going
to be 30-year bonds now we've had this
period of extended long term wall rates
not only here but around the world and
now it looks like we're not going to
Jack him up very fast so we may be in a
new world the world that Japan entered
back in 1990 and if Seoul stocks will
when we look back out of bullets very
cheap but you know this has not been the
history of the United States that have
these continued low interest rates so I
there's no if I if I had a choice today
for a 10-year purchase of a ten-year
bond that whatever it is or 10 years or
buying the S&P 500 and holding it for 10
years I'd buy the S&P in a second well
that brings us to a question that a
viewer wrote in this is t67 pH pants
says from the annual report in the 13 f
it looks like Berkshire was the least
active and the public markets in the
quarter when the stocks were the
cheapest you also did fewer buybacks in
the fourth quarter when Berkshire was
cheaper was taking the foot off the gas
in the fourth quarter a conscious
decision and based on what you just said
we've got all these signs that looked
like the Fed was not going to be raising
rates in the fourth quarter - so why
wasn't that a buy signal for you well I
thought talked to her by in the fourth
quarters just like they did in the third
and second and first quarter but
sometimes we have other things in mind -
that may use a lot of money and
sometimes they work out and sometimes
they don't but but what does that mean
you were holding your cash in case a
deal came through we had at least one
deal possible it was been very large and
so we I like stocks in the fourth
quarter but I like I would like buying a
business even better is that I did say
in the annual report that we expect to
be buyers that buyers of stocks and this
year we have not been net buyers I
should point out I mean the markets
going pretty much straight up
I still think stocks are more attractive
but I have trouble buying it what every
day it's up the deal that you just
mentioned is that potentially still on
the books No
so I don't think I don't think it is no
is it a deal here in the United States
on this planet so you went out of your
way in the letter to say that you do
think buying businesses outright is more
expensive even though you don't think
stocks are too expensive question that
yeah and in this in stocks now you have
a businesses I should say you have a
huge huge huge fire and and that's not
only and companies are eager to buy too
but you also have private equity and if
I don't know how whether private equity
it's flexible because they can call on
their partners for more money and all
that but let's just assume that they
would have a trillion available now they
use a lot of leverage
they call themselves private equity but
they're really private debt to a great
extent but that that trillion might buy
as much as say three trillion of assets
if it's leveraged with with two trillion
of debt well the total stock market is
something like 30 trillion and and if
you take the top five companies you
knock another six companies you knock
four if I afford trillion off that so I
you're down to something where the
buying power
of of private equity plus just the
normal buying power from companies that
want to get in there it's just a huge
amount of competition when you start
looking around is that do you think the
private equity companies are overpaying
for this or can they be like worried
rather or not I mean they obviously want
to make the best deals they can but they
are in a game that there's so much more
competitive than was for them if you go
back to the 1970s when you know when
when leveraged buyouts started which are
the same thing they're doing now but the
the name kind of lost its appeal there
at some point but but the deals you
could make then we're enormous ly more
attractive than the deals you could make
now let me ask you one more question
that came in from a viewer you've you've
kind of answered this but there there
may be a little bit more to the answer
this is t-84 for the control-room
Nick writes in why didn't a large
acquisition happen for berkshire during
the fourth quarter 2008 sell-off are you
anticipating a much bigger decline in
the market or was i guess maybe it was
the timing of it maybe it was so quick
yeah well there - in 2008 for example we
were going to by Constellation Energy we
ended up buying the stock and making
some money on it but but that was part
of a deal when constellation fell apart
it was in the fall of 2008
both I was watching the tape Dave Sokol
was watching what was going on and we've
actually called each other at the same
time and he was on a plane with Greg to
Baltimore
yeah that day and and we we contracted
to buy it so we were we were we were
ready to buy that and we we tried on
other things and we put but we
participated in marketable securities
big time at that point - as you know we
spent I think we spent 16 billion
dollars in three weeks where was when
nobody else was spending and when was
that
well between about September 15th and
October 7th or 8th and then we already
had another three billion committed to
Dow which was not going to get taken
down till later on so
we went through our cash pile pretty
fast too fast actually you have a huge
cash pile right now though twelve
billion dollars
yeah we're and that doesn't even count
the other twenty billion in and cash
like no that does count I mean but but
the hundred ten or something like that
counts twenty and you know I never get
right down to twenty anyway but but
we've got a lot of cash and we'd love to
use it but we're a private equity firm
that's going to borrow six or seven
times what they call Eva da which I
don't use as a metric they're gonna pay
more than we are and you know as I said
we paid too much for God
if you pay too much for something it
doesn't accommodate you by earning more
money to make it look good it learns
what it earns and if we'd paid if we
paid ten billion less for crap that
would is don't learn the same money you
know basically this question that comes
in this is F seven control room
Doug Wilford writes in Warren when you
come across bad news on a holding for
example Kraft Heinz can you share the
sequence of criteria you use to
determine if the stock is on sale and
buy or a busting to sell what really
concerned you as as what is in what it
as to what is in back of a dip well the
stock market is there not to instruct me
it's there to serve me so if it comes if
there's bad news in the stock goes down
the question is in my I have this is is
the long-term valuation changed and you
know there was well there was certainly
bad news at Geico wasn't be bought for
example but there was bad news in
American Express when I originally
bought it back in the sixties it was the
best investment the partners have ever
made so what you like it's bad news
about a fundamentally good business and
then you got to make sure the still
fundamentally good business but no bad
bad news on a good business we're better
off because Apple stock is down
significantly from where it was four or
five months ago then if it stayed there
Apple will probably they may not but
they have said they're going to go down
to cash
neutral they could do it either by
acquisitions or dividends or repurchases
my guess is it'll be mostly purchases
there are about a hundred and thirty
billion dollars away from cash neutral
now if the stock were 200 it would buy
six hundred and fifty million shares if
it's a you know 150 you buy close to
nine hundred million shares yeah we're
way better off you know if it's a if
it's at a lower price when they're
repurchasing share our partners are
selling out to us and there's nothing
out cheaper than otherwise the worst
thing that can happen for from our
standpoint with apples is it sells a to
thirty or something like that because we
don't like buying it as well at that
sort of prices the camels yeah well I
was back at Geico ten days ago when the
camel was running well I had yeah you
should win some type of mad you know
madman or advertising me you
singlehandedly you know turn that into
you know people need to do that if they
I mean Geico what the heck is a Geico
it's a government of Martin you know and
would have gone nowhere but you ramped
up all that ad spending and look at it
now so I mean you you really that sort
of they owe you the whole advertising
industry
I'm the job I yeah I am so glad that you
remember that I was the one that came up
with the idea of a Geico
the gecko I mean that lizard people
Geico seemed but people Geico miss
remember that entire they think it was
their idea and I remember that little
guy out and said why don't we try to get
credit where we let's talk a little bit
about what Joe was just talking about
and Joe stay there because I know you
want to ask about byd that might play
into this the trade talks with China
yeah how big of a deal is that what have
you seen on your companies on your
investments well I see that monthly
reports from the companies come true and
of a fair number you know not an
insurance at all obviously but but a
fair number of the tariffs have had some
impact
which one 10% errors and they a number
of them say if it if it were 25% there'd
be some big adjustments some of it the
suppliers have swallowed over in China
and some we split with them but but it
pushes prices up I mean there's just
there's no question about that but it
hasn't had a big effect at 10% a number
of them told me in 25% I mean the world
changes and you either get a lot more
money for your product or you source a
different layer you do something so are
you relieved to hear of the deadline
being extended and being pushed off that
March second it's not all going to go to
25% well I'm relieved at the idea that
there's so some chance that sense will
prevail I the it is bad for China it's
bad for us if we head into some kind of
a trade war and and and you know
negotiations are tough and something
like this ISM a big deal to both both
countries and to some extent you're
playing a game of chicken and because it
hurts both countries and I generally
think when two very smart countries have
something very important at stake
they'll end up making rational decisions
I mean I've been figuring that way with
the with the Russians ever since you
know the nuclear bomb I that even though
you got all kinds of tensions and people
generally figure out what's best for
themselves
and the best thing for both China United
States is to work on something that's
all the both sides can live with it did
you think there was a valid reason for
amping up these negotiations for saying
hey hey hang on a second we're not
getting a fair shake well I think we
haven't been getting a fair shake to
some degree but I think we can sustain I
mean to some extent the United States
can do things that no other country can
do so as I think number smaller
countries for example if they want to
run
trade surpluses with us I mean in the
and it strengthens their economy it
doesn't hurt us that much I mean I think
we've got a role to play in the world
that way but I don't think we can be
Uncle Sam either Jo you have some
breaking news
yeah out of the general electric
breaking to a lot of us that realized GE
had this much money tied up in biopharma
the company General Electric is selling
its biopharma business to Danaher kind
of interesting Danaher 421 point four
billion dollars and 21 billion of that
will be in cash ge says it's going to
use the proceeds to reduce leverage
strengthen its balance sheet it expects
the deal at a closed during the fourth
quarter of this year and it there's
there's a lot of you know there's a lot
of comments about how you know from cope
about how this is in keeping with their
plan to reduce leverage strength in the
balance sheet and all the other things
the deal Danaher meanwhile sees the deal
adding 45 to 50 cents to adjusted
earnings per share in the first full
year and instead of us talking about
this
Becky me or you I guess we should get
Warren's comments on what the effects of
this movements let's do just that and I
do want to bring up this is something
Warren that we got viewer questions
about two random IgE control-room t 102
Brian Savage Rhoda and mr. Buffett given
the recent turmoil with GE do you
believe Larry Culp is the right man for
the job and if you could advise him what
would you inform him he should do lastly
if he is the guy why haven't you
invested in a company like GE given your
current funds well I think he should
sell off the medical operation for
twenty one point four billion to dinner
I mean that's had sounds III think that
that GE should be leveraged you know
great insights there I'm then they
believe the same thing I'm sure so they
just they all they owe more money than
they showed it president and and and
they should sell assets to some degree
not not in a fire sale at all and so
this is not a fire sale price so I
I applaud what they what was just
announced and I met Larry at a terrific
record a dinner and we are a big
customer of GE we are a big supplier of
GE you know I've had some connection
with the company for four decades and
they did call us in 2008 when they
needed money and so I I think I think
all America is cheering for GE but I'm
certainly one of those that is cheering
have they called you more recently well
I talked to them off and on over the
last year or two but and but I I've said
the same thing pretty much that's what
I'm saying right here Joe you have other
questions on this front not so much on
that I got a lot of things obviously
that that that we want to talk about in
I guess Warren probably does know GE
pretty well it does he have I'd like a
little more color to his comments on G
he probably doesn't want to do that what
do you want your expression what do you
say you you criticize by just generally
but you praised by category praise by
name never got me to do that I haven't
seen their 10k yet I mean I want to get
their 10k as soon as I can't and and it
may it may be it it's probably out just
about now and that that's that's the
document you have to read up about 50%
of you don't think I thought Laura yeah
other than that yeah but it's it's you
know it's it's it's it's selling the
equity selling for about a hundred 100
million dollar billion dollars and and
and then they have they actually have a
preferred issue that's five or six
billion
people don't even know about that and
then they have they had you know
something over a hundred billion of debt
I'm consolidating the capital but I
think that's the way to look at it and
they've got it
they've got a couple of very good
businesses so but but they're they were
over leveraged and they've got to reduce
the leverage and and clearly they're
doing it I mean you could write you
could write a check for that war if you
really liked it that that's true but you
won't be okay there's a question that
came in from a viewer and I asked this
because we're talking about GE and it's
one of many companies that's looking at
unfunded pension liabilities potentially
down the road this is t54 control room
Brian Bannon roads and how do you see
the unfunded pension liabilities across
the United States affecting our economy
over the next 10 years well if you're
talking about the corporate sector the
unfunded liabilities have been working
their way down because all the new
companies don't go for divine benefit
plans so you've got you know if you take
the four or five largest companies in
the United States they don't they don't
have divine benefit plans we have bought
a number of older companies so we have
we have a fair number of companies with
defined benefit plans we wouldn't start
any divine benefit plans but but that is
it it's it's not it's not a huge problem
in corporate America I mean you have a
Sears and the Pension Benefit Guaranty
corners but but it's way less of a
problem than it was ten years ago or 20
years ago in the public sector you know
it's a disaster and you know some of the
it's interesting to me when they talk
about these relocation problems you know
in New York and Amazon all that sort of
thing you know I
if I were relocating into some state
that had a huge unfunded pension plan
I'm walking into liabilities because I
mean who knows whether they're going to
get
the corporate income tax or my employees
you know with personal income taxes or
what but that that liability isn't gonna
you can't ship it offshore like this and
those are big numbers really big numbers
and they may come you can delay a long
time I mean you're getting push maybe
somewhat but the politicians are the
ones that really haven't attacted in a
good many states and when you see what
they would have to do I say to myself
why do I care that has to sit there for
30 or 40 years because I'll be here for
the life of the pension plan and they
will come after corporations I'll come
after individuals they they have to
raise a lot of money I mean when you say
that the states that come to mind having
not looked at the statistics in a while
would be Illinois and New Jersey at the
top of the list as I say I I pray you'd
buy Damon let's talk about the decision
of Amazon to say forget it to a second
headquarters in New York City we were
with Charlie Munger on that day and this
was February 14th just a week and a half
ago we were with Charlie Munger the day
that announcement came out and Charlie
had some pretty firm comments on it he
said he thinks it's crazy that states
like California and others are basically
driving the rich people out what do you
think about it well III heard Charlie on
that and he says hey they don't have
kids they don't and and a good many of
our charitable they tend to give them
things that are around them and they
don't use the services nearly as much
relative to their taxes that they pay as
the average person and they says they
use the hospital's no no I obviously
well the state like Florida which has no
income tax attracts a lot of rich people
you know and and and in Texas you know
when people wrote relocate there the
fact that that there's no income tax is
a real factor and and I don't know about
those two Tuesdays specifically I have a
feeling that their retirement plan
are in pretty good shape compared to the
old industrial states you get legacy
liabilities when you move in Nebraska is
in very good shape for a long time that
we've really been against the state
having any debt now they get on that
with leasing sometimes well what we're
talking about a state versus state yes
you're now talking about some new
taxation plans that are being
recommended in Congress or by specific
senators or congressmen that are similar
to some of the some of those policies
that we've seen in the states I mean if
you just run through it Elizabeth Warren
with her wealth tax on anybody over
fifty million dollars a OSI Alexandria
okay Jie Cortez with her plan to tax
anything above ten million dollars at
seventy percent rate
Bernie Sanders with his estate tax going
up to seventy seven percent if those
policies are enacted on a national basis
do you see that same sort of trading off
where people would potentially leave the
United States what do you think about
these plans well that's an interesting
question I would say this if tomorrow
everybody in the world had a chance to
make a one-time change in where they
lived every two billion families all
over the world the only time they're
going to get the chance to make the
change but they will get transported
free to any country they want to go
their family and have citizenship what
do you think's going to happen tomorrow
let people are in the United States a
lot of people are gonna come in United
States very few people are gonna leave
North Korea might have a small decrease
in population I mean the point is I mean
this is an incredible country and it's
true that right now we're raising three
point three trillion dollars and
spending probably four points weird I
have a debt of a deficit of about a
trillion in a very good year in the
cycle I mean what you're a prosperity
and that's five percent of GDP and
that's probably more than shot you could
actually take a two to three percent
deficit and not have the ratio of debt
to GDP growing to five and prosperous
years we're on a walk on it so we you
know you can cut spending you can raise
taxes but I would say that that the
wealthy are definitely under taxed
relative to the general population that
was almost a dodge of the question I
mean if these policies drive out the
wealthy people sure if you've got your
choice of where to go everybody would
want to come to the United States but
would the wealthy people do that if we
changed our tax structure well I I I
think most of the people that have the
rich people mark rich they leave his
case I mean you know he's leaving before
the feds pick him up yet and I don't
think if you offered most of the rich
people if they were sane anyway and you
said if you stay we're gonna take half
your net worth and if you leave you can
take it all with you and your eighty
eight years old like me am I am I gonna
leave the United States you know I could
move South Dakota has no state income
tax Wyoming has no savings so we've got
two states the border Nebraska Nebraska
has a seven and a fraction percent state
income tax if I will which is right
across the river had no income I
wouldn't move I made it now I I think
people want to come here I think if you
made that offer I made the United States
there'd be more people come the United
States than anyplace else and they would
come they would come if the deficit was
one trillion or one point two trillion
Warren you're you're making a decision
to to leave all your money to the
private sector in terms of charities and
because you think may I assume you think
maybe it'd be better spent there than by
the government isn't it possible that
that it's just not the right idea to to
just look what's already a bloated you
know what some people would think a
bloated entity
did address the spending side of things
or else maybe you ought to reconsider if
you think the government is so good at
spending money well why leave it all in
the private sector go ahead and give it
all to the government let them do it you
seem to have an idea that it's a better
treated if you do it
it was philanthropic Lee I've got about
four choices Joe I mean let's say I have
eighty billion dollars a I could spend
it all you know and but even to spend it
all I would have to sell Berkshire
stocks so I would incur taxes of you
know twenty or so billion dollars in
spending so the government would then
get twenty if I wanted to spend it all I
could I don't know what the world I'd
spend it on I can I can give it all to
my wife undoubted and there's no tax I
can give it I could give four million
people twenty thousand dollars each and
there'd be no well I
there'd be no tax on it as long as I
give them make gifts to separate people
up to twenty thousand I could I could do
it there's no tax one thing you one
thing you could do the the estate tax is
the wealth tax I mean in theory you get
taxed on wealth on the estate now you're
allowed to give to charity fifty percent
cash 30 percent appreciated stocks and
have it deductible from here from your
income yeah they let you essentially
deduct all the gifts of wealth at death
so you could you could have you could
have a limitation that you can only get
50 percent of philanthropy and and and
treat it the same way actually is as if
you're giving away from income during
your life there's a lot of things you
can do with the tax law I mean the tax
and I think that one way or another when
the Forbes 400 have gone from 93 billion
to 2.7 trillion since 1982 the market
system as it gets more specialized
we'll get more and more to the top
people if we were back in 1800 and we
were all working on farms you'd probably
be worth a little more than I am because
you'd work harder and be stronger but
the top person working out farm would be
worth one and a half to maybe two times
what the bottom person wasn't but as we
get more and more specialized the guy
that's the best in knocking out some
other guy that weighs 200 pounds is
worth thirty million dollars a fight now
he's worth thirty million dollars to
fight because somebody invented
television and Cablevision it as we get
more specialized the rich will get even
richer and the question is how do you
take care of the guy who's a wonderful
citizen and fatherhood may have died a
normally or something and and and but it
just doesn't have market skills and I
think the Earned Income Tax Credit is
the best way to to address that question
and and that means probably some more
taxes it should mean some more taxes for
guys like me and however you come at it
I'm fine with we've talked about a lot
of things so far but we have not gotten
your take on the economy to this point
there was just a Federal Reserve report
out on Friday that suggested that GDP
for 2018 is probably going to come in
slightly below 3% what do you think the
economy is doing right now just based on
your businesses based on the receipts
you see the companies that you track
that you have major purchase a major
shares in right now just based on the
monthly statements I get and some cases
I got other data in between but overall
things are a little better I mean the
rate of the rate of improvement is
tapered but it certainly hasn't
flattened now that could change next
month and and home construction has been
disappointing but most of our businesses
I was I've seen other figures on retail
that are strong and you know including
Walmart's but I would say our retail
figures in January we're not strong but
but January's a peculiar month and that
can be affected a lot by weather
although any retailer will always like
things on the weather I
now I'm right now things things look
fine when you say it's it's a little
better that's relative to win what are
you what's your comparison well I'm
saying that if it if it if it developed
as I see in January in February for the
whole year I think we would probably
beat our twenty four point eight billion
but that would depend on insurance
profits because swinging away their
their profit that you just report the
operating yeah yeah so I know I business
looks looks decent it's not galloping
ahead and the tariffs having a little
effect of ten percent they went to
twenty five they would change things
quite a bit and I I do see some more
inflationary things but no I I don't see
anything be alarmed about at present
what inflation today if you told me GDP
would be down this year I'd we'd still
be doing the same thing it's pretty much
what inflationary signs do you see at
this point well we just as I get the
reports from the companies they say
these raw material costs are going up
and and now oil being down helps us I
mean that's the basis for a lot of
Rominger of costs but uh overall there's
more cautious pressure you mentioned
that housing has been weaker how
homebuilding you've seen that why do you
think that is
it's puzzling because you know before
2008 you know we were running high well
I mean one obvious answer is expect you
expect the household formations to go
way down in a recession and we had a bad
one but you've had this big trend from
home ownership meetings are running so
that you know that's probably changed by
five percentage points well five
percentage points when you talk about
125 million households or six million
houses there are people that are living
in rural units rather than houses so
that that configuration has really
changed and I would have thought it
would have turned back
as people got the jobs back and all of
that but single-family construction is
really I think it's been quite weak
compared to what you would expect after
ten years of really cover him with a
stock market now quadrupling him from
the lows and unemployment at 3.7 percent
people are just making different choices
j-pal the chairman of the Federal
Reserve is set to testify before
Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday of
this week based on what you said about
the weakness and housing based on some
of the downturn that you saw did you
think he made the right move by
signaling a much more dovish take less
last quarter yeah I don't I don't
second-guess him at all I think he's a
terrific choice for Federal Reserve
Chairman he he actually was at the
Treasury in 1991 when Solomon was in
trouble and I saw him make a lot of very
good decisions for the United States
government he's a smart man and he's
he's very level-headed in he he
understands both business and economics
and I don't think you could have a
better chairman so I will never
second-guess have not done I know you
don't make a lot of investing decisions
based on what the Federal Reserve chief
or anybody else is saying but what would
you be interested in hearing from him
this week what what might what might you
be listening for well I I read what he
says but it doesn't affect anything we
do it just doesn't I mean it doesn't
affect that investments are in you know
the amount of money we're going to spend
on the railroad this year and energy or
anything we we're plowing ahead always
we always spend more than our
depreciation and we know the country is
going to make lots of progress over time
and we don't think we're smart enough to
jump in and out as to when the time is a
couple of questions that came in from
viewers when it comes to the economy one
is t19 control-room Rashad Khan asking
do you think the 10-year yields are
likely to rise from current levels in
the long run I don't know what the long
run is well I'm amazed that ten years
into a recovery or nine years into the
recovery ten years and the panic
the I'm amazed that rates worldwide or
what they are this is not classical
economics to have trillions and
trillions of dollars still at negative
interest rates with the world doing
really very very well I I don't know I
you know I I don't understand it I don't
think the economists really understand
it I mean they gotta explain it somehow
but that's the real quick the real
question for stock investors are are
these rates more or less a new normal
and people who thought the Japanese race
in 1990 couldn't possibly stay where
they were you know that had turned out
to be suicide for the people that sure
if you have any spawns and so on and we
live in a world that wasn't described in
classical economics do you think it's
because of the experimentation by
central banks around the globe well I
think the central banks did what they
had to do after two thousand eight nine
and act I think Europe was a little late
doing about one Draghi finally said
we'll do whatever it takes the only one
that can say that at central banks and I
think central bank's behaved very well
post the recession
you've mentioned twice this morning how
we could potentially be in a situation
like Japan where these interest rates
stay at these incredibly low levels will
it work out better for us than it has
for Japan well the answer is I just
don't know but Japan also has a
declining population and no energy
resources and I we're a different case
than Japan we're here at the Nebraska
Furniture Mart today and I know that
you've talked a little bit before we
came on the show this morning just about
Rose blumpkin who founded the Nebraska
Furniture Mart
you bring up immigration so I thought
maybe now would be a good time to talk
about that she came here in 1917 yeah
she came over here on a boat from
Yokohama and she landed in Seattle and
I've got the manifest of the boat and
the hair and I've got her entry papers
and she and she couldn't speak a word of
English
the Red Cross got her to Fort Dodge Iowa
where her husband was she spent two
years there couldn't pick up the
language there so they decided to come
to Omaha where there were some Russian
Jews and they would feel at least they
had a home of sorts and she sold use
clothing and that various things had
four children and 15 or so years later
she'd saved twenty five hundred dollars
and you're in what was became the
largest home furnishing store in the
country except we now have a larger one
in Texas but but in the 50 something
largest market she took $2,500 and
turned it into the largest home
furnishing store and the punchline is
that she couldn't read or write and I've
got a contract here that we signed this
is what I came out with I typed this up
in 1983 are the 30 yeah it's it's really
just one page I mean this is a signature
page here and that's her signature at
the top as you can see it's just a
scroll and we did not get an audit we
did not look at the property records to
see I just said mrs. B do you owe any
money and she says no and that was that
well at that time we bought that we
rearranged things within the family
something so we in effect about 80
percent and a value of 60 million
dollars on a hundred percent basis but
we had but we just we we shook hands and
I felt like I had the Bank of England on
the other side and and then she went on
to work until she was 103 if any of my
managers are out there listening that's
sort of a yardstick we use now on
retirement and it was a marvelous
marvelous woman and when never went to
school a day in her life and when the
family sat down for dinner they sang God
America before eating it you know it's
an incredible story we're in the annual
letter this year you read about the
American tailwind yeah what well as I
point out in there I'm on this March
11th in a couple weeks Italy 77 years
since I bought my first stock and I paid
one hundred and fourteen dollars and 75
cents for three shares of city service
preferred but if you had bought if you'd
been a pension fund and you put a
million dollars into the sp500 at that
time and reinvested during mild
investing lifetime that that million
would have turned into 5.3 billion you
have gotten for every dollar you put in
you've gotten over five thousand dollars
without ever reading a headline an
annual report you never know accounting
you just had to believe in America and
you didn't have to pick the right stock
you just picked America and if that
isn't the tail winds more like it's more
like a hurricane I mean it is American
business has done incredibly well and
America's done incredibly well and you
know I go back and I point out that
there were 277 year periods before that
and that takes us back to George
Washington getting inaugurated and there
wasn't anything here then and now you
have a hundred and eight trillion
dollars of household wealth in the
United States you know with we've got
something that works and that framework
wasn't that we were working harder it
wasn't that we were smarter but we had a
framework that unleash human potential
and just think of that 377 year periods
one of which I experienced and you
couldn't help but all you had to do was
believe in America and and you got very
very you didn't have to read the
newspapers yeah nothing you didn't have
to pick a stock that worked the last 77
years but there's a question that came
in t29 this is from Scott Baker with so
many people in the SP index funds is it
still market neutral and the best
investment vehicle for most people
yeah I think it's best investment
because most people don't know how to
pick stocks and and most of the time I
don't know how to pick
stocks I mean it is not an easy game and
by definition people are going to do
average I mean take everybody and
aggregate and if half of them are paying
big fees and jumping around and paying
burgers Commission's the other half have
to do better and no it is as I've told
they blend and my my widow will get I've
instructed the trustee but ninety
percent and in an S&P 500 index fund and
ten percent governments just so that
just for feeling of security but but
there's been no better bet than America
nothing like it there was one question
that came in from this is f20 ahmad abu
huraira said who said what a strong a
sustained shift to the left and fiscal
and economic policy rip away at American
business tailwind moving forward yeah
well my my dad thought you know
communism was coming in the thirties
very anti Roosevelt like all my life
I've been hearing half the country say
that if the other person favored by the
other half wins things are gonna go to
hell and so I pointed out in my
discussion I've lived under 15
presidents 14 of them I've invested
under I didn't invest under Hoover I was
a little young man but seven were
Republicans seven were Democrats I mean
it after this last election and in 2016
my most of my friends were for Hillary
and they thought you know sells stars
you know dig a cave crazy you know and
you do not want to have a political view
in investing and most people put it
through a political prism they just
can't keep their politics out of it they
can keep their religion out of politics
they just have to look through those
glasses and if you'd if you've done that
if you've been a staunch Republican or a
staunch Democrat through these 77 years
you'd have missed out on a lot of a
party what about now when the parties
are kind of in flux Donald Trump was not
a typical Republican and Bernie Sanders
now looks like he's leading the way in
some of these polls he wasn't even a
Democrat until recently he's a socialist
his whole life who
just caucused with the democrats well he
was an interesting candidate in 2016
because I would you know he he came
close and I would say that 90% of the
people that voted for him hadn't heard
of him two years earlier
that's really unusual and it's giving a
hope to all people when you look at what
senator did what do you look at what
Trump did it a lot of people look at the
merit I would say well that could be me
so Sanders the big appeal I think he had
was he came yeah unusual authenticity I
mean they all want to seem authentic and
they that they are authentic in a
certain way but they they do move around
as the polls come in and their advisers
come in
you had the feeling when you listen to
Bernie that he was saying exactly what
he believed
now you can agree with her or not but
that's a very appealing characteristic
and Academy they may not be enough to
carry anybody to victory but it isn't it
it makes people notice you they really
do know to some extent whether you
believe what you're saying when you're
out there on the stump and Bernie he
really did hate billionaires and and and
the campaign for that saying I mean he
was talking Athena Klee and he's still
talking anything I mean I absolutely
give him that do you agree with his
policies well I agree with certain
things that make him mad I don't like
the campaign finance laws and I also
think that the inequality gap has
widened and will continue to widen
unless something is done about it but I
also believe that the most important
single thing is to have more golden eggs
to distribute around so I don't want to
do anything to the to the goose didn't
that lays the golden eggs and we've had
the goose that lays more and more golden
eggs over there is unbelievable in this
country so we've got something that
works in terms of the market system in
terms of turning out lots of goods and
services people want the question is
what happens to the person is
decent citizen doesn't have market
skills and we can solve that a rich
family can handle if they've got six
children and one of them isn't as good
in the market it's just good every other
personal quality they take care of them
and we've got sixty thousand dollars of
GDP per capita in the United States
that's six times what it was when I was
born in real terms so we can take care
of people and we shut but we shouldn't
screw up the market system well Bernie
looks mild compared to some of the
candidates who are running to the left
of him well that's there's somebody who
wrote in this is t13 Ted Waller this is
probably based off a play off of some
conversations we've had with Jamie Dimon
but he says do you still consider
yourself a Democrat if you look I'm not
a card-carrying Democrat but I never
have been I voted for a fair number
republics I'm getting getting money to
Republicans I I am NOT a Bob Strauss
called me one time because they want me
to handle finances in Nebraska he said
but the question is for question Warner
you a card-carrying Democrat I said no
I'm not I mean I I don't think I don't
think either side has an edge in virtue
or anything of the sort
I mean I think that they have different
views on things and I think that that by
the time they get in politics they sort
of stake out their positions although
they move them in a period like this
when they think this may help to be
further left you see people that that
sort of funds have a new new vision all
of a sudden because they saw how it
worked for Bernie but no I I will vote
for more Democrats than I've in in the
last 30 years I voted for more Democrats
than I voted for Republicans I was
president of the young Republican Club
in 1948 at the University of
Pennsylvania I ran for delegate to the
Republican National Convention in 1960s
the only office I've ever run for when
we were just out with with Charlie
Munger he said he didn't think much of
too many politicians but he did like
what Mike Bloomberg did in the city of
New York what do you think about
Bloomberg as a potential candidate what
do you think about Howard Schultz
potentially running as a third party
candidate
i I want to answer your most questions
but I'm illegal
I would Mike Bloomberg announced
tomorrow that he was a candidate I would
say I'm poor and I think he would be I
think you'd be a very good president and
I mean he and I disagree on some things
but I think that that he knows how to
run things I think he's got the right
goals for America he understands people
he understands he understands the market
system and he understands the problems
of people that don't fit well into the
market says he no III would have no
trouble being for him I Howard Schultz
if he he suddenly got run as an
independent and if he ran as an
independent I think he would take votes
away from any Democrat including
Bloomberg a favor running so I think it
would be a real mistake for him to run
and I I think generally third party
candidates they're going to hurt one
side or the other and they're more
likely to hurt the side that they
actually favor because they're closer to
that view and so they they pull more
people away that that would otherwise
you know go to the second best with that
view so I I hope no third party
candidate runs the polls any significant
amount of those I mean they'll always be
a couple people that file but but I
think third party candidates are good
wart actually the will of the people I
just want to run through some of the
holdings some of the changes that were
registered and get your take on why
first up Apple you trimmed three million
shares to two hundred and forty nine
point five million shares of Apple and
that caught a lot of people by surprise
they were wondering if you were selling
no the one one other fellow in the
office one of the two had about six or
seven million years he had it before I
did and he works with a limited amount
of money third
a billion roughly so if he wants to buy
something he needs to sell something I
want to buy something I've got cash
around to do it so he sold about three
million shares I believe cut it in half
roughly to buy to buy something else and
and I didn't I I I've never sold a share
so that this was not even a conversation
you had with him I take it this is
either times business yeah I mean they
do not check with me
I sometimes learn at the end well I do
at the end of the month I look and see
how their portfolio compared to the
month before and say what they've done
this generated a lot of questions from
viewers and let's go to one t14 jedi
marcus wrote in if you loved it meaning
apple undervalued at two hundred plus
and a trillion dollar valuation at two
hundred dollars plus and a trillion
dollar valuation why would you sell any
this past quarter you've answered
already you didn't say yeah incidentally
I've never paid two hundred ferny stock
an apple would you start buying in one
sixty or something was that why no I
think our average cost about a hundred
and forty one or something like that
okay there was a question that also came
in from Rick Saffir as this is t90 he
said do you plan on adding to your Apple
position throughout 2019 and I just want
to also bring up a tweet from Jim Cramer
he tweeted back on February 5th doesn't
Apple trade like Berkshire is back
buying I spoke with Cramer about it and
he said look I don't know anything it's
just all of a sudden the stocks really
picking up it's almost as if so are you
interested at lower levels in a number
of stocks we all know there's some where
we really can't go over 10 percent and
generally I don't like to go over 10
percent because it it complicates life
quite a bit and with banks it it
actually throws us into the bank holding
company so there are stocks that I would
buy that we own nine in a fraction
percent and I actually may be selling a
little bit because they're repurchasing
their shares and I don't want to drift
over ten percent but Apple that I don't
see myself selling the every the lower
goes the better
like it obviously I mean Apple is not
one of those 10% stocks don't you own
about 5% of the shares or shot so is
this a situation where you have been
silent buying since it came so much
lower at the end of December it's really
not back to where it may have briefly
very briefly got there but but but we're
cheaper we'd be buying it now we aren't
buying it there there was another
question that came in this is t91
from Umar say bear Zubair who said Apple
decelerated share purchases share
repurchases from around 20 billion
dollars in the third quarter to around 8
billion dollars in the fourth quarter
just when the stock price went down by
about 30 percent in fact Apple
repurchased zero shares in December of
2018 when the stock at a 52 week low
what are your thoughts on Apple's
repurchase deceleration well and Apple
have said publicly that there and
they've repeated it that their goal is
to reach what they call a cash neutral
position or their debt is roughly equal
to the cash I think that would take a
hundred and thirty billion or so they
get there but of course they could make
some acquisitions on the other hand
they're earning a lot more than their
dividend so that number goes up mentally
I say to myself
we're very likely I a lot of things
could change this with them and and the
lower the price goes the better it gets
but then they should be at four billion
shares probably and maybe three years
and so are our 5% would become something
over six percent at that point and I
like that prospect and then we might buy
some ourselves who knows it depends on
the price but they will buy a lot more
stock if it's cheaper than if it's it if
it's a higher and and you know it's just
simple math we're better off if in the
next three years
Apple is cheaper you loaded up on
financials in the fourth quarter you
added to your stake some JP Morgan bank
of America Bank of New York PNC and US
Bank Corp and six year top ten holdings
I believe our banks at this point
why so much emphasis on the financials
very good investments it sounds
prices based on my thinking and they're
there they're good they're cheaper than
other businesses that are also good
businesses by some margin and a couple
of those we own nine in a fraction
percent of and I don't like to go to
nine nine because that means in that
quarter maybe I have to sell something
so I try to leave myself a year to two
years of repurchases but Bank of America
has been particularly aggressive on on
buying a site then Brian Moynihan has
done such a good job earning that
company since he took over I mean
everything he was the most
underestimated bank executive in the
country and he is everything he said he
would do he's done it and he's beat it
and he said stuffer targets all the time
for himself and he's been smart about
repurchasing shares JP Morgan is a
relatively new stake you had 35 million
in the third quarter and it was a new
stake you raise it to 50 million dollars
or 50 point 1 million shares I should
say in the fourth quarter is that your
purchase because for a long time you
held it in your own portfolio why I
still got a little bit but that goes
back years and years and years yeah so
why why JP Morgan now well the other
question is why we just dumb about not
buying I was not buying it are clear but
it's a it's a very well managed banking
and banks are you can find a bank like
JP Morgan earns maybe 15% maybe 17% even
on that tangible like witty a business
in turns 15 or 16 or 17 percent on that
tangible equity that's incredible in the
world of 3% bonds I mean just just
imagine that you had a deposit account
with JP Morgan that they've made a
mistake and they gave you 15% on it and
they couldn't redeem it what would you
sell that account for you wouldn't sell
it for 100 cents on the dollar you
wouldn't sell it for 200 cents on the
dollar when they even sell it for 300
cents on the dollar you have an FDIC
guaranteed instrument that would now be
at 300 cents on the dollar if it was 15
percent on equity you'd be earning 5% on
it which is way
better than Treasuries now if on top of
that your deposit allowed you to let
your interest compound to some extent
now that instrument comes even worth way
more because if you have an instrument
that could compound at 15% for 10 years
and use the added capital that's worth
way more than three times tangible
equity that current interest rates way
more so a lot of things can happen to
change that equation around and the
banks like all other Americans almost
all other American business got out a
big plus last year with the new tax bill
I mean corporations benefited a lot
including Berkshire including the banks
that can be taken away you know so but
on the other hand the FDIC now has
gotten replied there were special FDIC
charges on the big banks they ended here
recently because the FDIC has a hundred
billion dollars in it now that money has
all come from the banks the US
government has not put any money in the
FDIC people think that you know the
somehow the FDIC is financed by the
government it's guaranteed by the
government what the FDIC was started in
I think January 1st 1934 and I think one
time it borrowed temporarily but it
doesn't have a dime of government money
in it that money and and now they've got
a hundred billion in there and the banks
are much better off because that fund
takes care of the bank here and there
that goes broke incidentally last year
was no bank in the United States
no FDIC bank went broke that's the first
time in a long time let me slip in one
more question before we take a break
Oracle that was a stake that you
suddenly popped up in the third quarter
that berkshire had 2.1 million billion
with 2.1 billion dollars of oracle
shares at the end of the third quarter
it went to 0 at the end of the fourth
quarter which it's really unusual to see
a technology company creep into the
berkshire holdings like that and it's
even more unusual to see it flushed out
so quickly was that you yeah and Larry
Ellison is not a fantastic job with
Oracle I mean I've I've followed from
the standpoint of reading about but I
thought I didn't understand the business
then I started buying I felt
I actually changed my mind in terms of
understanding and not in terms of
evaluating it I think I mean Oracle's is
a great business now but I don't think
particularly after my experience with
IBM I I don't think I understand exactly
where the cloud is going you know I I've
been amazed at what amazon has done
there and now Microsoft isn't doing as
well so I I just don't know why I don't
know where that game was going that
leads us to f4 which is question from a
viewer named Mark Hall who said with IBM
bouncing back how do you feel about
getting out oh we got out of hire a lot
higher prices than this I'm not knocking
well but noble markets come back and
mark is at a high I that doesn't mean I
that I don't mean it's at a high and
then it's going down subsequently I mean
that it's just I hire that's been on it
you know for well really ever I mean
when we met here 10 years ago the DA the
S&P was at 666 and within a day or two
of when we got together and and you know
people thought America was washed up and
you know they were afraid of America and
what's happened a quadruple in ten years
how many quadruples do you got in your
life you're a company that has never
really shopped around for deals like
that what do you think of companies that
do get special deals from states well
I've actually helped Nebraska few times
when the governor of somebody's asked me
to call a company ah and everybody does
I mean they say it's just you know it is
a competitive game on on locations but
it it can be a little irritating uh
since when you're already here and
you're employing thousands of people and
they want to give special incentives to
somebody who and then which they haven't
given you and and in some cases to be
your competitor I mean it you know
Amazon Amazon is gonna compete plenty in
New York regardless but I mean Amazon's
is gonna affect negatively the business
of men
many companies in every state including
New York got that as Jeff Bezos says you
know your gross margin is my opportunity
does that mean you think New York was
right to turn down the deal or to kind
of second guess the deal that they had
yeah that's what happened is they they
they both got to the altar you know and
then the dowry was changed in a sense I
I don't know all the details but and
you're in a tough position if you're a
company and negotiating with public
officials because the public officials
really can't necessarily be the last say
whereas it the company if the CEO says
that you got a deal you got a deal and
on the public side you know there's a
city council that has to ratify a mayor
or something of the sort so it's it's
unequal that way now our experience in
New York and Buffalo has been fantastic
I mean Geico went there we got 3,000
people and the communities help them and
Governor Cuomo's hell I mean just
generally it's been very very very good
for us but I think if you're gonna have
a bad marriage it's better to find out
before before they pronounce you man and
wife said after you still they're both
hurt a little bit by the fact that it
went there I mean it makes thing people
think twice about doing a deal where the
community may get upset about you for
one way or another or that the
politicians can't deliver on it and from
Amazon
standpoint I mean they heard something a
little too but not not meant not a great
big way for either one but it's no plus
to have things fall apart so you really
as much as possible you want to have a
sort of thing sealed before but you need
labor you enginee political figures I
mean a lot of things can tank it on the
public side you know Jeff Bezos very
well in fact you're working with he and
with him and with Jamie Dimon on this
health care initiative between the three
companies can you give us an update on
where things stand right now well we've
got a terrific fellow in a total Guan D
running it it is a long long term
I mean process and and when we get
through we have to not only have a
better medical service I think we've got
a lot of great things about our medical
system but it is costing us now 18% of
GDP up for 5% and it is a tapeworm and
if any other cost in America had gone
from 5% to 18% federal taxes have stayed
quite constant around 18 percent for 40
or 50 years same time medicals gone from
5 to 18 now the double counting there
because Medicare is but so we've got to
stop the cause situation but what we're
hoping to find is something that will
not only do a better job for our
employees but have them feel better
about it and stop the ascending rate you
know every point you chew up of GDP
comes comes out of something comes from
somebody else and their only honor cents
in the dollar okay but it's a very long
term I mean it's and and and we'll get
something done the probabilities you
know I mean it we're at we're trying to
change if 3.3 billion dollar industry
point three trillion dollar industry
sorry that really for the people
participating and they feel pretty good
about it I mean the people getting the
3.4 troy you know hot the hospitals
aren't unhappy the PBMs are not happy to
drive mad I mean they you know it may
complain a little bit but the people
that are getting the three point four
trillion are not screaming change change
change what are your thoughts on Kraft
Heinz following all the current news and
what is your biggest concern regarding
Kraft Heinz future well we have some
very very strong brands at Kraft Heinz
and as I pointed out earlier the company
earns about six billion dollars pre-tax
but after depreciation not after
amortization after depreciation earn six
billion on seven billion of tangible
assets it's a fabulous business it's in
terms of return on tangible assets I
mean this is a great business we're
sitting here in the first year mark but
Richards much higher
at crap it's much higher than it is at
JPMorgan its much you go up and down the
list there's very few companies that are
earning 6 billion on 7 billion of
tangible assets but we paid a hundred
billion more than the tangible assets in
buying and and we overpaid in an end
craft I don't think we overpaid in hinds
and we borrowed money that related to
projections that have not been met we're
and a lot of money but we were paying
out a lot of money so we had very little
in the way of retained earnings to
reduce debt so our debt of 30 1 billion
is higher than we projected originally
to rating agencies and so on and and we
need to bring it down and it comes down
very slowly I mean unless you sell sell
properties I mean even if you cut the
dividend from 250 to 160 that's a
billion one a year but on 31 billion
yohko the right direction but there's a
lot of there's there's real debt to be
reduced a lot of people wrote in and had
questions about your partnership with 3G
3G we're your partners in the Heinz deal
and then with the addition of Kraft as
well let's go to t61 this is from James
Shanahan mr. Buffett how would you
characterize the relationship with 3G
today would you still consider
additional deals with 3G yeah I
considered George Apollo and his
associates but my primary contacts been
with George II ballo lemon over the
years first meeting him on the Gillette
Board and I think he's an absolutely
outstanding human being and and and but
a year ago he he pointed out that the
game had changed in terms of brands that
didn't give a talk at some forbes event
or some place and and that that was a
full year ago and six months ago I told
you no I think I think that brands said
it's it's not as packaged goods not as
good a business as they were the really
strong brands are but you know we've
learned that over the last few years as
the struggle between the retailers and
the and the brands has shifted toward
the retailers and
that's why Kirtland is a big a very very
big brand Walmart's going more to to
private label there's some big forces on
the other side if you've got if you've
got a good enough brand you know you can
you can you can also call your attorney
what Costco drop coca-cola some years
ago they brought them back do you see
that ever shifting or do you think that
the the game is going to be this way
weighted towards the retailer's except
for the biggest brands it certainly
looks like particularly with the
addition of Amazon to the picture I mean
when you when you have Amazon and
Walmart fighting it's a little bit like
the elephant's fighting and I mean the
mice get trampled and I don't see I
certainly don't see the retailer's
position getting weaker I mean you have
all tea coming in and stronger I that
just and you got a Walmart's not a very
very very good job yeah Doug McMillon on
it but he carries around that list of
the 10 top retailers from the past and
from every decade oh my yeah to remind
them you know that it's hard to stay on
top and and and but now you've got to
bury and a lot of other players to put
too particularly strong players that
that I've got their foot to the floor
and and there's some extent are will be
pushing their own brands in terms of the
partnership with 3G if the situation has
changed according to both Georgi Lehman
Jojo Paula Lehmann and to you if brands
are not as strong as they used to be and
as you've said in the past it's gotten
really much more expensive to try and
look at any of these other consumer
packaged goods companies and potentially
buy them does that mean the whole 3G
formula has kind of been upended is it
really difficult to make it work if you
can't go out and buy another company and
then cut costs yeah well the acquisition
just don't work as well I mean for one
thing the prices got pushed up and you
know anything
almost almost anything at a price can be
good not everything
anything at a certain price can't be bad
I mean if you if you pay too much you
pay too much and and and it doesn't that
doesn't change and if you borrowed a
fair amount in conjunction with it it
takes a while to turn rmii
I do not see well we're not in a
position to buy additional brands and I
have not thought it made sense as we've
seen both prices change and the
competitive position changed somewhat I
still like that I like the businesses we
have very much I'll be happy to be in
Kraft Heinz five years from now or ten
years from now I'm certainly happy to be
George Apollo's partner he's a terrific
human being and very smart on business
but but you can say that we both
misjudged the retail versus brand fight
as to who would be gaming around on the
other watching what happened to shares
of Kraft Heinz on on Friday after all
that news came out after the market
closed on Thursday
I mean stock was down 30% and I think
for Berkshire alone that was a loss of
about four billion dollars on top of
your three billion dollar share of the
fifteen billion dollar right down I know
you wrote the annual meeting or the
annual letter about how there are days
because you have such a big portfolio
173 billion dollars in stocks there are
days with market volatility being back
that you see a swing of plus or minus
four billion dollars or in certain ways
I know you're like dr. Spock you're
completely emotionless when it comes to
dealing with the market moves but is
there any part of you it gets a little
queasy when you see that you've lost
four billion dollars in a day not at
least I mean makes me assuming I like
the business best which ones they are
but overwhelmingly during the fourth
quarter the things were going down a
they were buying out their own stock so
I'm actually making money that day you
know without laying out of dime and then
secondly I can buy more of some although
a lot of my bets at 10 percent problem
with but I I mean there are certain
stocks I would have kept buying except
that was bumping up against the the 10
percent
but no I'm I mean if if if you paid X X
dollars a pound for amber yesterday and
you're going today and now it's at 80%
of X maybe you have a little hamburger
left in here refrigerators I mean you
tear your hair out over the dad or do
you say oh my god you know this is
terrific the price is cheaper what what
else in the world don't you like to buy
cheaper but then you're paying the day
before that's a if you're gonna keep
buying it that's the very logical way of
looking at things the rational way
Hey Joe has a question to Joe mr. Spock
mr. dr. Spock is that wacky god dr.
Spock there wouldn't come swing he's the
baby guy I finally said something that
got your attention no no I actually
wanted to ask about I was just talking
about dr. Spock with my say he was I
don't know he was I don't know if you
just let kids cry forever I think you
need it anyway no no way can't you can't
think I was wacko traveling Freud too
and this'll one I agree anyway unless of
that can I ask quickly about that 60
minutes and to some some philosophical
questions Warren
so the basic thrust of this piece
yesterday on electric cars was that at
least the way I read it is in this
country I think we're starting to feel
like maybe the subsidies that Tesla gets
aren't really a good way to do things
necessarily and over in China they seem
to be going the other way where they are
going to subsidize this it's almost a
state-run enterprise how much they're
subsidizing electrical vehicles as a
result the thrust of the piece was by
2025 they're going to be doing a couple
of million 3 4 million electric vehicles
we're going to be stuck down under 1/2
million is that what we should be doing
here in your view or is there a reason
you're invested over there in electric
vehicles rather than here I mean is that
the way to do it should we be
subsidizing it completely here in the US
or or to market forces allocate capital
better
markets are better generally so I mean
you know me I'm at but that doesn't mean
all the time but they're certain but
markets are better I think I actually
think electric cars I think you're gonna
have a lot of people pushing electric
cars and in the United States even
though the subsidy is going away I think
it goes away at 200 thousand units or
something like that and Dussel is
hitting it and so on
but no I think electric cars are are
very much in America's future and I
think much sooner than autonomous
driving but I listen I'm all for the
Chinese doing what they're doing I mean
it and in terms of the in terms of the
planet and you know it's it's a good
thing so I I cheer them for doing it I
don't think we'll need to do it in the
United States that much you invested
over there you're not how does it here
right oh when we bought the BYD ten
years ago and Charlie called me up and
said buy this and that is totally
Charlie's position that and it's done
fine and and he keeps in touch with the
management all that I that is not
something that that I could not tell you
within 20 percent what the price would
be why he is I don't look at it I so
that's not your thing okay but it's just
just watching at it you know that the
the spin I was getting from 60 minutes
was that you know we're we don't
understand that you you know certain
industries you need full on government
assistance or almost you know subsidies
out they you know ten times what they
are right now to try and win at
something which is not surprising for 60
minutes but I was just wondering whether
you thought we're gonna fall behind if
we don't have a concerted government
effort to prop up the industry I think
there's a pretty conservative industry
effort from what I hear I mean that no I
think you're gonna see a lot more
electric and incidentally I mean you
know we have an interest in pilot Flying
J and so we have we have certain
businesses that would be adversely
affected uh with all electric but III I
think we're going in that direction and
I think you'll see
the American companies quite aggressive
in that field all right I was listening
the whole time Becky what do you mean
that's only commonly I was listening
though I'm listening listening I got
nothing else to do here about listen so
I really I was I was listening I just I
just like that I like that you know you
know how much I love mix metaphors my
favorite is like that's a walk in the
cake I call it you know or you know
there's just so many guests if you can
mix them up but when they start working
on March March Joe start working on your
March Madness ballot I offer a hundred
billion to someone who gets a perfect
bracket it has happened once didn't it
well we had one a few years ago that
bracket not all you have to do is get
through the first bracket to win a
million dollars there's something nobody
else wins a million great three anyway
but we had five of them two years ago we
had five of them that got to the last
four games and and four of them went out
on one game and one went out on the
other game but they split it what are
your thoughts just in terms of looking
around trying to find businesses trying
to find pieces of business versus when
you started the game well it's harder
for two reasons one of which is peculiar
douses we just we've got a lot more
money so our universe of possible things
to do is shrunk from thousands and
thousands of things that I used to look
at when I had small amounts of money to
a relatively few things nothing seems to
defy logic I have more money so I have
fewer things I can do but it's just
because ideally it's gonna be much
bigger than you know you know so so no I
there's probably a hundred stocks you
know if we put five billion dollars in
something and it's 10% of the market cap
which would be as much as it would be
you're talking 50 billion and up market
caps and and five billion is 1% of our
Berkshires values so if it goes up 50%
we make a half a percent and I'm
basically on valuable for tax 35 40
basis points afterwards
your problem yeah so and then the second
thing is I mean obviously got you away
more competition than when we started
the 19 well really when I took Ben
Graham's class in 1951 I mean the whole
world was was my oyster because people
were not going through the manuals and
you had to it's easier to get the data
now for one thing I mean just with the
internet far easier and I used to mail
away for any reports and go to the
Interstate Commerce Commission the
Public Utility Commission the Insurance
Commission I went to all those offices
and dug through papers and and now it's
you know it takes five five seconds for
somebody to get the information I'll ask
this very fleetingly as your position
changed on Bitcoin I know I mean it's
too bad but but Bitcoin it's ingenious
and blockchain is important but Bitcoin
has no unique value at all it doesn't
produce anything you stare at it all day
and the little bitcoins come out or
anything like that it's it's it is a
it's a it's a delusion basically so
we've gone from rat poison squared to a
delusion who knows where we'll be next
year but I I'm I'm really sorry it
happens because people get their hopes
up that something like that is going to
change their lives and there's a very
ingenious thing to figure out how to
have a limited supply and make it harder
to more expensive to create them as you
go along all that sort of thing but it
doesn't the function and this is
explained to me by people a lot smarter
than I am but they say blockchain does
not depend I'm betting on and JP Morgan
it's not about creating their own you
know JPM and and then it'll be worth $1
I mean it's match to the dollar the
dollar and it's I'm suppose I think the
people don't want it there there are a
lot of questions that are kind of like
the new Bitcoin questions we got several
questions that came in to ask you about
I'll go to t46 this is forked Design LLC
do you think the hemp and marijuana
industry is a viable industry to invest
in even though there are still
restraints on how capital can be moved
and used we got lots of variations
it's an industry that I don't know
really anything about you seed your
otherwise no never no III couldn't even
smoke a cigarette
[Laughter]
what do you think about college athletes
and whether they should be paid and I
ask you this having watched what
happened with Xion Williamson the Duke
player who's Nike shoe blew up on him
last week I kind of read that whole
debate and you're a long time watcher of
college athletics well I say this if I
was an athlete I think I probably should
probably have a viewer I should be I
mean that you are I mean if you're
really good you're of enormous
commercial value and and and the rules
of design are designed to prevent you
from cashing in on that commercial value
you know the for some period it doesn't
I the rich schools are going to win that
Harvard may have a resurgence of
football this one came in t-28 the
tataka go to said do you see any
irrational human behavior by investors
or corporate Americans right now you're
kind of you and Charlie are kind of like
the the police of corporate America what
do you see that you don't like right now
well there's always a certain number of
people doing things that that are
designed to take advantage of other be
the market is so big and so there's
always been people that you know maybe
it's Bitcoin maybe it's new issues I
mean look at all that look at all the
things have been created around Bitcoin
I mean and there there's been a lot of
fraud and disappearance and all these
kind of things it it attracts charlatans
basically because the money's so big I
mean if you've gotten do something phony
and selling yo-yos or something there's
no real money in it but when you get
into Wall Street there's huge money and
and you can do it with little pieces of
paper and they don't bounce back on you
for a long time and a lot of people get
a moment Madoff was the old example but
but that's that's that's going to happen
and that's why we've got an SEC and
Wiley
got courts and but it'll always continue
you'll always need policing there are a
bunch of new technology IPOs that are
slated to come to market this year I
think back to what you thought about the
tech IPOs back in 1999 and not wanting
to be near them these are a little
different a lot of these actually have
earnings you think of an Airbnb you
think of a Pinterest or something along
these lines is this different what do
you have this stuff no yeah but the big
ones have losses and and and and some
report earnings differently than I would
report nice I mean it's you know we have
more time peels and and if you think
about it you've got a whole bunch of
people on the other side who have an
interest in marking up each stage of it
even if it's phony sometimes they offer
one price for the employees that already
have the shares and that but then they
have an artificial price that so they
can say that this round went at a higher
price it's they're picking the time to
sell to you I don't like I like it when
I'm picking the time to buy in a 2008
rather than having them pick the time
when they've decided this is the time we
can cash in my selling to you we're
going to do you a big favor and let you
buy in so I have never been a big fan of
of IPOs and I'm and the valuations
they're kind of staggering now on some
any in particular by category that's the
category of those that you think the
valuation is staggering is based on what
just earnings per if a company's got a
couple public will pick a figure fifty
billion dollars okay what should you
expect it to earn in five years is it
you should certainly expect to be
earning five billion pre-tax I mean if
you wait five years to get ten percent
on your money and people they don't sell
them that way and uh there aren't that
many companies have been five billion or
more pre-tax there's a fair number but
but but it's not that easy and it's
particularly not that easy if you count
what you're paying the employees and
stock options all that sort of thing
question came in this is t1 twelve from
Todd Marshall
he says who wins more at the card the
card game bridge Buffett or gates well I
probably play a hundred times as often
as bill so that that's probably the only
game in the world where I'd have a
slight edge with a very slight edge of
the fee we probably spent two solid days
working on he'd do better
while you bring up Bill Gates Melinda
Gates has got a book coming out on April
23rd I think it's one of the best books
I've ever read what's it about it's
about women and it's about women around
the world it's about herself and it's
very candidly told when the stories are
terrific and I read it the other day
once again
it's only two hundred and twenty or
thirty pages coming out April 23rd I
think it will be a huge summer that's
great well look forward to seeing it
another question that came in is t-55
steve pilgrim asks for those of us who
have lived our lives and careers reading
and listening to Warren Buffett and
Charlie Munger to whom do they recommend
our grandchildren listen well I hope it
stops sort of an actuarial freak no
there's plenty of interesting writers uh
you know and but I will tell you the
fundamentals won't change
you're not going to discover anything
new about investments in the next 50 or
100 years I mean it's buying a business
you have to know how to value the
business and you have to know something
about how markets operate but you don't
buy a business unless you can value it
you have to learn how to value
businesses and know the ones that are
within your circle of competence and the
ones that are outside and that won't
change and it really gets back to Lane
investing is laying out a dollar an hour
dollar purchasing power and getting more
back in the future and you try and
figure out you know how much you're
willing to pay for that bird in the bush
compared to the bird in the hand warning
we want to thank you for the three hours
that you've spent with us today we truly
appreciate your time thank you
you